Okay,
we should be live here.
Does the chat load? Yes, it does.
Perfect.
You know, I probably should be doing
other stuff, but I've been having a fun
time working on the uh the visualizer,
and I figure we may as well just try to
get like a full prototype today
cuz I think I can do it.
I will take uh at some point I'll
probably take a short break today to do
uh a quick RL tutorial whenever we have
a decent number of people watching so I
can get some feedback for tomorrow
because I'm going to do the exact same
thing for an academic lab and I figure
why not try it on my viewers first.
All right. So,
uh, we just need,
actually, we don't need any tabs of this
window.
And we don't really need any tabs. We'll
keep one tab of this window.
I haven't even themed this thing. And
damn, this is so cool.
This thing looks so freaking cool.
It's not even done yet.
Okay, so uh things that we have to do.
Yesterday I I mostly fixed up the ticks.
Hello, E10.
So, I still have to theme this and
stuff, but are there any core missing
features at this point?
I honestly I think the only thing that
is missing is
the uh the data analysis I was going to
do on this big plot over here.
That's pretty much it.
Oh, yeah. And I guess if I want to
stretch this cloud of points, I could as
well.
But like just being able to look at look
how fast this thing is. Look at this.
Love me some Hyperf software. This is
like completely unoptimized as well.
This is literally just the base
performance that writing stupid C code
gets you.
It's literally recalculating all these
plots every frame. Like no caching,
nothing.
Python for MVP.
[Music]
Welcome one character username.
Can you elaborate how you will use the
viz to improve RL? So look at this
thing. First of all, this is the largest
scale. I'm pretty sure the largest scale
RL viz ever done. At least definitely
will be when I add in the rest of the
environments to this cuz I only have
half the environments plotted right now.
Um,
so we have at least 1,200 experiments
per environment across a dozen
environments. They're totally different
environments as well. They don't belong
to the same suite or anything. There's
quite a bit of variety among them. And
we're going to be able to see from this
this is like compute and data scaling
trade-off. We basically have ability to
see any individual metric we like on
here. So, anything we want from this,
we're also looking at hyperparameter
scale sensitivity. And we even have
hyperparameters embedded to separate out
environments, which is not something
I've seen done before. And the idea is
we're going to be able to use this to
draw connections
uh between different M. For instance,
like here we can see which environments
are close to each other in embedding
space. So, which environments tend to
have similar hyperparameters when
optimized. We see we can see like uh
general stability regions shared across
specific numbers of environments. We can
see whether the shapes and curves of
cost data trade-offs look the same. We
can really just learn a lot from this
very quickly.
And we can ask and answer questions like
way way way faster here than we could
anywhere else.
Are there scaling laws in RL? They're
not good.
Have you ever used defer C for memory
safety? You don't need memory safety,
man.
You don't need memory safety if your
program allocates all your memory up
front and then frees all the memory at
the end.
Like if you're not just allocating
little bits of memory everywhere, it's
not a problem.
What are we doing today? I think we're
going to spend some time cleaning up the
uh the dashboard here and implementing
the last couple of things I want to.
I'm also going to take a little break
from this at some point later in the day
to do uh another run through of the
little RL tutorial to see if I can get
some feedback from viewers, but I'll do
that when I have more people watching. I
just started stream.
I have this idea in my head that I want
this plot to kind of look like the night
sky, at least some form of it and have
like patterns drawn between it.
Why are the RL scaling laws not good?
Because RL has not had billions of
dollars of investment in it the way that
LLM stuff has. It's kind of the same
thing for the rest of RL in general.
like RL is and has always been the
hardest sub field
use after free on your puffer.
I mean you can do that but the thing is
the free is at the end of your program
anyways. So
the only thing that can happen and I
have had this happen a couple times is
uh if you're running a sweep, right?
Because like the environments have to
actually correctly clean up after
themselves after a sweep. So, there have
been a couple things with this, but like
definitely memory safety is not remotely
on the list of top issues that would
make me consider using a dramatically uh
less convenient approach to programming
as a whole.
Research on fine-tuning agents. No, E10,
we kind of just we train everything from
scratch because everything trains so
fast.
like when I can train agents in seconds,
we kind of don't have to care that much
about fine-tuning.
Uh, so I do kind of everything around
here except like the really big model
pre-trained language stuff. We don't do
that around here. This is much more like
smaller models trained per task,
extremely high performance simulation,
uh, superhuman capabilities coming out
of like million parameter models. That's
the flavor of RL we do around here.
It's a really cool problem space because
it's incredibly incredibly effective.
It's almost entirely untapped and you
can do it without having to have your
own H100 cluster.
went into that with my chest. Yep. Yep.
You can do that. That does happen.
Use after free. You probably like freed
observations or something. You probably
tried to free like your obs buffers or
something that you weren't supposed to.
Maybe we do want to stretch this, right?
So we get like a uniformsized plot.
I could see that
we just stretched this to a unit cube.
Why do we need baseline and policy
gradient method?
People claim that there's high variance.
Well, you need a lot more than a
baseline. Like policy gradients just
with a baseline doesn't work.
um you actually so RL is almost entirely
dependent on the advantage function in
general.
It's just it's a very hard credit
assignment problem essentially, right?
Because you have you're trying to push a
you're trying to push action probs in
the direction of reward. So if you have
a sparse reward signal, you're basically
just hoping that if the reward is good,
you push all those action probs up that
of like the whole trajectory and then if
they're bad, you push them all down. So
you really don't have that much
information to work off of.
And then addition like the your specific
question is just essentially saying
like, hey, I don't even know how good
the expected reward is on average,
right? So at least maybe I can push
stuff up if it's better than average or
push it down if it's worse than average.
But that's like really really primitive,
right? There's way better stuff you can
do than that. If you take a look at our
advantage kernel, you'll see the calc
that we use. It's generalized advantage
estimation plus VR trace.
policy or the value function.
Would you say
that's kind of a weird way of looking at
it because the value function exists in
order to help train the policy, right?
It's not like which is the bottleneck.
The like the only reason the value
function exists is to help you train the
policy.
You don't even need to run at least
usually it's the it's a partially shared
network but you don't even need to run
the value head for inference if you
don't want
Why don't we just take the argmax of the
Q value?
Well, first of all, we don't have a Q
value in what we're doing here.
We have on policy methods that are
directly training policy and value
function. And second of all, if you take
argmax of Q value, you have a fully
deterministic policy. So at least you're
going to do some epsilon greedy thing.
And then if you just do that, like that
still doesn't help you do credit
assignment, right?
Hey mechanics
Q values
Q value not so good
you can sample from soft max that's what
we do in on policy
right
you're going to make yourself you're
going to make everything a lot more
complicated on yourself if you're
thinking of it through the lens of LLMs
because LLMs are like very complicated
things that are doing really dumb,
stupid, simple RL, whereas we're doing
like relatively sophisticated RL where
everything else is very simple.
You're going to get yourself confused.
Let me think through this properly. So,
we're going to get some bounds.
This looks square
and definitely reshaped.
this actually is 0 0
extend to one.
This does.
Now we just have to figure out the data
transform, right?
What do you mean? What's a reasonable
horizon?
Is this self play? Are you training it
against a um
are you training against like a fixed
opponent?
self play. Well, then it should plateau,
right?
It's a good debug thing, Jess. The uh
one of the first things the Dota team
did was they spent like at least I think
they spent a full couple of months on
scripted bots for Dota, like just trying
to make better scripted opponents than
the uh the built-in ones. Dota already
had like scripted bots, but the built-in
bots for Dota are so bad that like you
can beat them as a new player who's
never played a mobile within a couple
weeks of like playing against
ELO does too is the issue. Okay. So if
ELO plateaus then there's a problem,
right?
Elo should not plateau.
builder port you. It needs to be fast is
the thing.
Like literally doing a one move look
ahead would be enough.
Like if you get something that never
just one move blunders like you're
already going to have a thousand ELO,
right?
If Stockfish has a low enough setting,
then sure.
I started playing a little bit of chess
like a few weeks ago, mostly because of
that project.
Uh,
I think you probably would be a thousand
ELO just by not blundering [ __ ]
I can't not blunder [ __ ]
I'm bad at all games, though.
Well, you might be able to even be
higher than that by just not blundering.
I don't know. I'm terrible at all games
except MMOs.
I probably need at least like some sort
of label on these.
But I guess that when you do it this
way, they are all relatively normed,
right?
Yeah. So they all do get relatively
normed when you put them together like
this,
right?
Yeah.
I'm on the bottom.
The current puffer lip implementation
suffice.
Uh the one janky thing is that you have
to skip every other step because it's a
turnbased game. So that's kind of
stupid,
but like you should be able to get it to
do something.
Some stupid bug with round robin. I take
a look model with improvement.
Are you training multiple models against
each other?
You shouldn't be doing that. You should
do something like historical selfplay.
And honestly, you should at Spencer
every like so often with some questions
because Spencer's working on similar
stuff. Not in chess, though.
Okay, I really like this.
This is cool.
What do you need to do to make a shader
that like
[Music]
what game is constellation? This is not
a game, my friend. Let me answer some
questions. Uh, take your bot and
bootstrap. Yo, what? Hey. Hey, Alien.
Spencer's uh L1. Whatever. Like it's
like Lion Heart with a like bunch of
elite L1 and it'll autocomplete.
Um so mechanics constellation is not a
game. This is the um
the visualization for all of our RL
experiments.
So if you just go on puffer.ai, AI,
right? Okay. A lot of these are games.
Not all of them though, right? We have
like driving and drones and stuff in
here, too. And what we've done is at
least so far for a dozen of these, we've
run over a thousand experiments per
environment. And these are the
aggregated results of that. So, what I'm
doing is I'm making a uh a visualizer
for a huge amount of experimental data.
But, you know, I'm trying to jazz it up
a little bit. And I got the idea for the
name constellation. So, I've got it in
my head that it would be really really
cool
to have this like have the visuals in
some way be reminiscent of the night
sky.
And I'm trying to think of like a nice
way I can do that.
3D planetarium.
That is awesome that this exists.
3D planetarium software.
Land on an A planet and view its 3D
surface.
If that's actually accurate as well,
that is awesome.
A lot less cool if it's just random ass,
you know, generated planets. If these
are real planets, though, that can't be
a real planet, right? No, there's like
we don't have planets with water on
them.
Oh, real celestial objects.
Oh, okay. So, there are actually
lower fidelity, but they exist. That's
cool. Do we have um
stars?
Ah,
constellations.
They're kind of just variable size
points, aren't they?
Like if you look at like night sky,
I guess there's like this blur effect as
well, right?
and obviously the background aspect of
it as well,
but it is mostly
variably sized points.
Is it real?
Uh, is what real
dig? Well, no. I'm I'm not trying to
like make a cool game, right? I'm just
trying to like come up with like a cool
thematic thing for some of these
visuals.
First of all, let me move from Let me
see if I go from
So, if I just do I know the spheres are
slower is the thing.
So, this is probably way slower,
but we'll see.
If I just do one of them though, it'll
be fast.
This does not look cooler though, does
it?
It needs um
I think I just I need like some sort of
star shade.
How old are you? 28.
should probably get some preliminary
thing to play with out of Grock.
Bunch of bright points with chromatic
aberration.
Yeah, but we're going with
constellation, right? That's
I don't want seashells
for this.
I wonder if X4 dev
has anything.
There's anything for inspiration here?
Stellar.
Dude,
I love this guy. Look at this. Oh, yeah.
113 characters. I'm here like, "Oh, man.
I wonder if I can do this." And he has
113 characters. Beautiful.
Wait, he doesn't have a license button
on these things, does he?
Oh, whatever. And I know he licenses
these for like a hundred bucks.
I'll go send him uh I'll use this and if
I can get this integrated I'll just send
him a hundred bucks or whatever.
Let me make sure that he doesn't have
another one.
I've always I kept I keep telling him to
add a um a buy button to this page. Like
he needs to just add a buy button to his
shaders.
He has multiple. He even has this type.
That's so funny.
of this.
On Windows, I need WSL. Technically, you
don't, but I highly recommend you do. I
highly highly recommend using WSL.
Windows is just a bad dev environment in
general and will cause you other issues.
I don't I don't even know how he has
this many different things that are
exactly what I want.
But I think we'll just go grab his uh
his like super lightweight
And then I can probably just stick this
stupid thing into Grock, right? Or the
uh I can stick rather this thing into
stupid Grock.
Be more accurate about that.
How are
I'm not really leveraging shaders for
RL, frankly. This is just for the
visuals.
We do have little chunks of CUDA here
and there, but um so I'm making this
thing,
this constellation. This is our
dashboard. And I want to jazz this up a
little bit.
So it looks cool. And the best way I can
think of this is the theme is called
it's called constellation.
So I just want the points in all of
these different graphs
to resemble uh the night sky, right? To
resemble stars. Just like a nice like
subtle little glow type effect. A little
bit of distinction on the sizing of the
points, right? And I think that we can
actually make something that looks
really cool. And we can actually uh make
it less neon as a result because it'll
pop more. But we can actually make
something really cool here.
And if I get a chance to use one of Exor
shaders in the process.
Awesome. Right. This is the shader I
found from him.
I mean, these look really nice, right?
Look at this.
I'm sure this is a super this is
considered a super super basic shader,
but yay.
Oh, this is the one that runs live in
your browser. This is the high-res
version.
This is not a video. This is just
running live.
Yeah, I'm sure YouTube compression
doesn't like it, but you can go look it
up right
here.
Oops.
Uh, I think you have to post the whole
link, not just the uh the chunk that got
highlighted. But will this replace wi
for people who hyperparameter optimize a
single env.
It doesn't have to replace it because it
doesn't have the same we're not doing
like the same experiment tracking thing
where you have a UI where you can like
go click individual experiments and like
you look at all the plots. I'm not doing
all that. I'm just doing a single screen
dashboard. Right? But the thing is you
can do a lot in this single screen
dashboard. Right? Because if you just
want to make plots of different
variables, right? Here, let me this this
thing is not perf optimized. Let me get
rid of this. All right. So look,
okay, I want to look at MOA. I want to
look at cost versus, let's say, I want
to say look at agent steps versus score.
And I want to color this by lambda.
Right? There's your plot.
And let's go apply the exact same thing
to grid
to like pong. Actually, I want to look
at agent steps. Oops, I already have
that there. So, let's just do cost,
right? And like you can very quickly do
a lot of visualization and analysis on
this.
Will it work with it? Yeah, it'll work
with a single end.
I just did, right? I literally just did
for you. Look,
this is all ends. You can click a single
end. So, whatever ends you have loaded
in, right? You'll be able to click a
single end. And like here I'm just
looking at one N. And now you can
compare, you know, you can do whatever
plots you want.
So yeah, it's meant to be just like a
generally nice useful little dashboard.
It doesn't have to completely replace
wand and stuff. And in fact, you know,
if you do like one very big experiment,
you probably want to have that on like a
tracked dashboard, right?
But if you want to do aggregate
analysis, this is really nice because
it's really fast, right? Like stuff does
not work this quickly on 1B at all.
Yeah.
only thing I'm not sure is how we
implement
I think it has to be done slightly
differently for uh
the scatter better.
I run my training on a remote machine.
Do I need to export it
CP to my machine?
If I run my training, so you have a
couple options, right? uh the stuff like
Neptune or Wii will do it on web
browser.
Uh this is an aggregate viewer. So this
is not just for like one experiment. So
the idea of this is you have a bunch of
runs. You're going to run like a uh a
data prep-processing script on all your
experiments and then you'll just take
that file and load it into this viewer.
So yeah, you'll either need to have uh
you'll either either will have to SCP it
to use this visualizer or
uh you can set up uh just exporting
which I have actually gotten working
with puffer
Oh.
Uh, this is interesting.
Billboarded sprites.
I would not have thought of that.
Okay,
let me see if we can uh we can make this
work.
Yeah, but also like Macs don't really
like Linux anymore these days, right?
They have the new uh or not that new
anymore, the Apple silicon chips which
pain the ass
Hey, I'm a third year student. Welcome.
How is a sashahil?
I have not I've not played with it.
I don't know.
Let me here. Let me not cover my chat
with this.
Welcome some patiel.
Want to know how to be a crack dev?
Start building stuff
and read my guide on X.
Um, it's mostly going to steer you away
from bad things that will waste your
time.
these are all of my best general
recommendations for programming as well
as ML, but there's some general
programming and stuff in there. you like
it's simple stuff that you really have
to take to heart.
It'll prevent you from wasting a lot of
Time
for RL specific. Specifically, there's a
follow-up to that guide that also
includes stuff about writing M.
Okay. So, this is just going to be the
Billboard version, I suppose.
Uh, let's try this billboard.
Yeah, this needs the camera.
points vector 3
array.
stuff is taught in college.
Yeah, you can go to the top universities
in America and they'll still teach you
[ __ ] wrong.
like I went to Stanford and MIT and I
may as well say that my programming
knowledge is self self-taught because
that's closer to the truth than saying I
learned it at university.
like you really they really really do
not teach you to program.
Not to say that there's not other
valuable stuff there, but teaching you
to be a good programmer ain't one of the
things they do.
What does draw billboard do? It's going
to render like a 2D texture facing the
camera in 3D.
You're sort of expected to know how to
code when you reach PhD level. Yeah, but
the thing is nobody [ __ ] does.
Dude, if I just see like a random indie
game dev and I see like a random MIT
PhD, my bets on the uh indie dev being a
better programmer.
Like most CS PhDs are [ __ ] terrible
programmers.
It's like appalling. Literally just go
start go scroll through like any of the
open source repos for um like AI
research.
This is so freaking terrible. It's so
bad.
This is a gen texture, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Gen texture.
They really don't though. So research
people the thing is they know how to do
science and they get too caught up in
doing science rather than solving the
problem. That's the main issue. So when
it comes time that the way that you have
to solve the problem is by writing a lot
of good code, they're just stuck and
they won't do it
and they'll waste years by not doing it
as well.
It's a it's a blind spot, let's say.
Writing
good code is hard. Well,
I guess it doesn't feel that hard to me
anymore.
It's more so that like
the way I it it's like completely
diametrically opposed from the way that
I was taught to learn to code, right? So
literally the process was be taught to
code, be taught completely wrong, and
then slowly over the next decade of my
life understand that I was lied to and
have to like relearn everything.
And that's really hard to do.
Yeah, that's mostly what I do, right?
And it's like, hey, what happens if you
just apply competent programming to a
bunch of these problems that haven't
been solved? Oh, look, they're solved
now.
I don't think this will copy the full
texture.
Well, them some billboards. Look at
that.
What was taught wrong? I mean,
everything they teach you like
objectoriented design in Java. That was
my first CS course.
There's almost not a single correct
thing in that entire
like the only thing that they get right
about that is the nuts and bolts of this
is a like this is a condition statement.
This is a for loop.
The way that they teach you to apply
everything literally everything is
fundamentally wrong.
If I made a syllabus for intro to
programming, what would it look like?
Probably. Here's some Python. We're
going to play around with some basic
stuff that's not going to exceed two to
300 lines of code for a few weeks
and build a couple cool things to get
you interested and see that you can make
stuff. And then you're going to learn
lower level dev.
And you're at least going to be shown
low-level programming much earlier and
in a way that is not painful.
And you're certainly not going to be
given like an assignment where you have
to fill in the blanks of like a massive
chunk of starter code. You're going to
be made like you're going to write
entire programs yourself from scratch.
the idea.
Okay, now we got our confetti. Look at
this. We got confetti, right?
Go jam some C.
If you know C++ decent, just come build
some cool. Like literally just come do
some stuff with Puffer, right?
I mean, I stream all this dev. We have a
ton of people doing this stuff now. It
shows you a cool thing with AI, but it's
basically just low-level game
programming, right?
You could build stuff like this, right?
Biz GPU or CPUbased.
It's hooked into Rail, which has OpenGL
as a back end.
So um some if you know enough to write
basic games like come look at the way
that we do stuff in puffer
because this stuff actually like this is
now AI playing this in your browser
right this is a neural net playing this
in your browser.
So, if you're looking for a cool way to
learn some lower level dev and to get
better as a programmer, this is a fun
way to do it.
And I have, if you read some of my
articles on X, I have some pretty
comprehensive guides. And then we have
like 2,000 people in the Discord.
Um, some of whom are quite helpful.
No, the billboards don't have the glow
effect yet. I'm trying to figure out now
why the shader is not doing anything.
Fail to open text file. There you go.
That's why
and start the repo on GitHub. It's free
and it helps me out a ton.
In fact, I'm actually some I'm going to
probably once I finish this glow effect
uh and once we have a few more people
watching cuz usually my streams have
more people in like the midafter
afternoon. I'm going to do a quick
tutorial like just a walk through of one
of the uh the starter pieces of code for
Puffer because I'm doing a tutorial for
an academic lab tomorrow and this is
going to serve as practice plus a way
for me to get feedback from a couple of
my viewers.
Honestly, Jess, literally the only thing
is it's just a matter of time if you
just like stick around and listen.
The thing is you're starting with a
fairly hard project.
Like chess is a very hard project to
start with. Most of the people around
here I've had start with much simpler
stuff. Like even Spencer, so Spencer's
first environment I believe was Triple
Triad.
So Spencer is now like doing uh stuff
with me professionally for Puffer,
right?
And he came in with zero AI experience
or zero RL experience at least. And this
was his first environment. And let me
tell you, the code was awful. He just
got a lot better very quickly.
So yeah, this was his first environment.
It's like a port of the Final Fantasy
card game.
Warning file IO
failed to open text file.
Well, yeah, because it's not a a file
name, dummy.
Is this just a Yeah, this is a frag
shader, right?
Love it. I would like a tutorial on
low-level parts of puffer. I'm going to
go through the target environment.
Oh, that's a much broader thing. E10, I
can go through. Actually, I might go
through bits of that cuz I'm going to
get questions from the lab. So, yeah,
you know what? Let's say that when we
have a few more people on in a couple
hours, then I'll do that.
You mentioned skipping steps. Why not
flip the board?
That's worse.
But Jess, isn't that's worse because
then it's like what's the reward it's
optimizing?
If it's going to get a reward of one,
whichever side wins, right?
Then there's nothing to optimize because
it'll get a like it'll do that either
way.
You can't That's like just having one
agent. you're having like one agent
playing against itself and like the
reward is I guess if it's one for
winning then it's just going to find the
it's going to find scholars mate
actually is what would happen
like you'll literally just train an
agent like a scholars mating agent.
Yeah.
Well, hang on. I can just do this, can't
I? Am I just being stupid? I can just do
Well, that's doing something.
Not what we want, but that's kind of
cool looking.
Can you time stamp the stream?
Uh, I suppose so. Yeah.
Tic tac toe for selfplay.
Mind when you mentioned it.
Use Vim motions.
Oh yeah, that's just HJKL. Yeah, of
course.
And then jumps. Yeah,
I use a very basic set of them. Yeah.
Okay. So, this is like push putting
stars across the billboards
is very weird
and composed them. I don't know. I just
do this. I do stuff like this all the
time, right?
I mostly just scroll around like this
and then I just like jump to approximate
line numbers or like to like to file
defs or something, right? or to calls
So this produced something utterly
stupid, right?
Is what I'm guessing.
Yeah, cuz this is just applying the same
shader.
Yeah, this is just like applying the
same shader.
Um,
yeah, this basically put the original
shader onto this surface, which was not
what we wanted.
Oh, you know what we get actually?
So,
do we get the position of it or not
really?
You you get the location of the uh
you get the location, don't you?
I'm trying to think what we need
for this.
You kind of need the distance to the
center.
I have to actually think about how to do
this.
What's Puffer Lib's next project? Well,
we're going to have the largest scale.
We're going to have the largest scale,
nicest, most polished visualizations.
in the field. So, that's a pretty darn
good one, I'd say. Uh, I have to finish
running all the experiments. And then
there's a whole bunch of PF
optimization.
I think we can make puffer several times
faster.
I think puffer 4 is mostly going to be
like just pure speed and then um
basically leveraging the pure speed to
move more of RL.
uh we're going to move the RL loop
towards the sweep region if that makes
sense. So right now where this the unit
of an experiment in RL is
typically it's just a training run.
We're going to move the unit of compute
up to a sweep.
I'll make it faster. We're going to do
some compile shenanigans. That'll
probably be this coming weekend.
We have some shenanigans to deal with.
Lowle dev,
some other things.
I'm trying to think how I would do this
correctly. So,
cuz right now it's just getting the
positions of all of the billboards,
right?
It's going to be more than compile the
neural net. It's going to be compiling
the training loop. We're also going to
do some like CUDA environment
shenanigans. You'll see. It'll be fun.
I'll be streaming it live probably this
weekend, most likely this coming
Saturday.
Yeah, it just wrote this garbage shader.
Let me go back to Exor's original.
Let me see how he did this.
Oh, but his is going to be
He's going to have like some thresholded
thing, isn't he?
What is FC
XY? Wait
I think that it's just completely
backwards, right? Because
Yeah, it's completely wrong.
Like the uh I mean Grock stupid thing is
right because this is
this is the number of points I guess.
right, I think I'm on my own. These
models are stupid.
I mean, that's kind of expected.
Um, I'm just I'm having difficulty
figuring out how I do this so that it's
like
how do you make it so that the shader
applies to a circle on the billboard.
The problem is I don't know this area
remotely well enough.
I know honestly this context is not even
helpful.
Uh simple fragment
It has to get applied uniformly to each
billboard though, right?
Unless I load it in.
Well, wait. Maybe I don't need to have
it.
Maybe I don't need these billboard
sprites at all. Right.
Yeah, I don't need the billboard sprites
at all
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Tim, let me uh I
think that the billboard thing was dumb
Oh, I didn't realize I can copy paste
from this.
Oh, I can only kind of copy paste from
this. I see.
on. Oh, it's on the other buffer. Okay.
Wait, what?
Oh, that's so weird.
That's weird.
You just load the entire data into a
vertex array.
Yes. It's a little annoying because um
it'll mess up the camera stuff.
What?
Oh, it's just stuck.
And give it a minute.
It's going to be something like load
points into buffer.
I'm probably going to end up with two
shaders, right? I'm going to end up with
a 2D shader and a 3D shader.
Yeah, we don't need to do this much crap
in the shader.
Can you not load in a ve 4 array?
Totally should be able to load this in.
RL get matrix projection. I see. So this
is fine.
Where do I think we will be with Arl for
law enforcement?
Literally nowhere.
The only thing it's potentially going to
get into relatively soon is drone
control.
And that's not really law enforcement as
much as it is military operations.
Okay, so this is much more reasonable.
So you end up with a very short shader.
And the problem here, right, is going to
be that um
you actually want to do this whole thing
in one big call,
right?
No, it doesn't have to be in one big
call, right?
I think I can literally just do it like
this and it works.
Let me see.
I'm going have to be a little careful
with this, but I think that I can
literally just do this.
I don't currently do any work with
defense.
We do have a few things that we've done
with like drone demos, but we have not
like spun that into anything for
military application.
the possibility of a completely not
really.
I mean the op my optimistic hope for
that is that we just make uh is that
human infantry become essentially
useless in battle and as a result of
that war just becomes two companies
throwing money at each other until they
break all of each other's toys and then
like uh and then continuing a war any
further is would just immediately be
considered an atrocity right and
universally condemned so I think it's
possible that you actually make the war
less lethal, not more lethal.
Of course, we'll have to see what
actually happens, but it's not like it's
not like clear-cut dystopian hellscape.
And it's also not the most interesting
thing for RL either.
Any rich guy can get an army.
A small one.
I mean, that's like
kind of
to be fair. You can actually you can do
that already anyways, right?
supposed to be a matrix vector though,
isn't it?
Yeah, I don't think this is being done
correctly.
I think what we should do then,
this is what we'll do.
Yeah, let's let's go apply this to plot
two
first.
So the idea is going to be that we do
the easier 2D function
and then it should be identical for 3D
except you have to project the data
correctly first.
Oops.
All right, I'm going to take a few
minutes, do a couple sets, use the
restroom, grab a cup of coffee, and we
will continue on
Yeah, that looks good.
So,
here, let me see if I can get something
from this.
Oh, and let me just double check one
one small thing. The email.
I just want to make sure I didn't miss a
message.
right. So, what we're going to do
Oops.
Oh, didn't change the sig. So, perfect.
And
vertex shader
We do need
we do need the shader.
So what we're going to do
best
in mode
ignore this
like So,
we're going to put this on plot
plot two.
Yeah, let's say plot two
like this.
And like this.
And
I don't know why it's done all this
mess. Why you don't use LMS? They're
bad.
I'm happy to spend some time on this
today.
Oh my god.
It looks size. Oh, that's why it's done.
Another news. Dog bites. Dog bites, man.
Yes.
Did anybody have example code? Is there
like ray li example code for this?
It would be much more helpful than the
LLM just making [ __ ] up that doesn't
work.
I would think it would just be a
texture. No.
I actually don't understand how this
makes sense. Does anybody know how this
works? So, it says that there's you can
draw GL points and then in the shader it
looks like you're getting
you're getting the distance from the
points in order to do attenuation. But
how does this apply to all points,
right? Like this doesn't say what to do.
I I don't think that this says what to
do right when you have a bunch of
points, does it?
the hell. Oh, so it just goes off and
does whatever then.
Cool.
Isn't this like utterly depressing
actually here? Like this is just stupid.
Why am I doing this?
Models are [ __ ]
my lab. Um,
shader examples.
It's like every single time I try to use
an LLM for literally anything, I regret
it.
But these are all constants.
I need something that's drawing.
Yeah. But which is always it just never
does anything. Right.
So the thing I don't understand here,
right? Like
I don't understand
how you draw
like different points like this
I mean, not really. At least those are
correct. That like garbage LM output
isn't even that.
But the thing is I just I don't have the
thing is I don't have an example
anywhere
right where I'm doing something
similar. I basically I need something
that handles
it's like from multiple points expanding
out.
I guess I can I can at least put this
thing in.
Let me see if I can at least use it to
figure out what the hell this is even
trying to do.
Um, I pretty much just want instead of
rendering like each of these points as a
sphere or a cube with a separate call, I
want to make a shader that handles all
of them. And then because I have it as a
shader, I can actually have it be like
the each of the points can basically
render like a little star like this. And
it's going to look really freaking Cool.
What are the points?
Yeah, the pl the plotted points are
going to be the points, right?
Oh, cool. And you can enable blending.
Let me see.
There's no RLGL.
Damn it.
Yeah, there's no such thing as vertex
attribute pointer.
I don't even know how it is that there's
still discussion going on under this.
I made this random repay post and it got
a quarter million views.
All right. To be fair, it's a really
long and dense textbook. Okay.
This is going to look really cool when
this is done.
Uh, this gives you a totally different
type of thing.
Can anybody actually explain why we have
like
we have um GLSL and we have like compute
shaders and then we have CUDA. Like why
do we have a million different things to
just do the same thing which is do
parallel ops on GPU
like I guess technically you could write
this type of a thing in CUDA, right? It
would just be like you do the same ops
parallel to a buffer and then you splat
the whole thing to the screen.
const void star.
All undeclared GL draw arrays.
Is it all the set vertex attribute?
It is, right?
It's supposed to What's it supposed to
take?
Intset.
Yeah, I the only reason I'm doing this
here at the moment is cuz I'm kind of
blind in this space.
Um, I'm not really used to graphics
programming like this. At least like
lower level graphics programming. I
probably should just take some time to
like let myself go learn stuff like
this.
I'd probably have a fun time doing it as
well. And the thing is, I very rarely
take time to go learn things that are
not at least like tangentially
uh related to stuff I'm doing
immediately.
I think it's a lot more likely that I go
deeper into CUDA. In fact, that's
probably going to be something I do
quite soon is try to do um CUDA
environment wrappers.
I think that I could make it so that you
could run puffer ends in CUDA as is.
Okay. Okay, obviously we need to include
OpenGL
uh this is a little sketchy, but we're
going to see.
And I'm not just going to keep blindly
copy pasting [ __ ] in here. If this is
not
working, we're going to go a little
deeper.
Okay. So,
load shader code. This one I know how to
fix. This is just
uh load
shader.
This is from memory. Load shader from
memory.
CUDA is bad for general ops. It is. The
point is not going to be to make the end
faster in CUDA though. E10. Uh the point
is going to be to make it compile end to
end.
I think I need to link
I need to rank link Ribb, right?
It should be installed. Can I just do
LGL?
LGL
and just do this.
You just need Do you need all of them or
do you just need LG?
Oh, there we go.
Who?
Oh, this is the old billboard thing.
not have any errors,
but nothing shows up.
And then this one. Okay, this gets
stored. So now we have vertices,
right? And then these get loaded into
buffer.
Okay, so these coordinates are just
wrong, right?
Like these coordinates are totally
totally wrong.
Let me see if it did some weird thing
cuz yeah, this is supposed to be rail
cords.
Okay. So, this is what I have here,
right?
Let me see where I where this went
wrong. So,
this is the same from before.
I have the same
There's no filter. Cool. So 161 128,
right?
and
X
And do we have y
log y is false?
oops we have our x which is where's our
log x
But we're going to do like this
x minus
All right, that's actually pretty close.
Uh, and then it's going to be plus x
margin. So, yeah, this is what we get.
Uh, that's not correct, though. So, why
do we get this?
So, because this should be
this is supposed to be between zero and
one.
Okay, because this is bigger than Xmax,
right? Why the heck is this bigger than
Xmaxx?
This is cost.
Well, cost can't possibly have Why is
this getting logged?
Am I doing it twice?
I just go double check.
So for plot two.
Yeah, look at this. I'm doing it twice
for some reason.
I don't know how that was supposed to
work out for me, but not well
apparently.
Okay, this is a much more reasonable XI.
Y I
And now this is something that should
show up on the screen, right?
Yeah, this is something that should show
up on the screen. Now that we have
something where they where we expect
something to show up on the screen, why
does nothing show up on the
I wonder is this supposed to be in
pixels?
Location, position.
I wonder if this is supposed to be in
pixels or if this is supposed to be 0 to
one.
All right, let's see if this is loading.
The shader
should say program. Okay, fragment
shader
loaded.
Okay, it loaded successfully, right?
On one hand, it's kind of silly for me
to be sitting here all day trying to
make my plots look like they got stars
in them. On the other hand, I'm learning
a few things about shaders, which are
kind of nice. And uh this is going to be
really cool when it works.
And I kind of feel like doing it.
You'll draw triangles. I see. Okay. So,
that's bad.
Yes. Yeah, there's still nothing. Oh,
but we didn't do um
we did not apply this fix yet, right?
Oh, you know, there actually are several
things screwy here, aren't there?
Yeah. Let's I have an idea. I know what
we're going to do. We're going to get a
minimal example of this and then we're
going to port it into into this code.
what we'll do
because I think that if this thing this
thing should at least be able to get a
minimal like standalone example
See if I can get this.
What we'll do is we'll just go from
here. We'll just do
um
This could just be like some dumb shader
loading jank anyways, right? If I can
get a minimal example, I'm sure I can
get it ported into this.
And
honestly, this is usually the only hard
thing with the shader is getting it to
do anything at all. From there, I
literally it's just got to be
it's integrating it with this thing,
loading the data from the plots in and
then the only thing I got to do for the
3D one is the uh the camera projection
which is just a single map.
Right?
That shouldn't be bad.
I mean, I would honestly way rather
rather than having the stupid LM in
here, I'd way rather Do you think I can
get this?
Actually, can I get this example from an
old branch?
It should still be in there somewhere.
No.
Ooh,
look at this.
Um, I found I think I found a real
example code that's not just LLM
garbage, which is what I wanted the
whole time.
So, if I can get this working, then I
can do it.
It's going to take some kind of gross
OpenGL, but it's not that much.
Resource shaders.
code is so clean.
Rayoms.
Yeah, Ray sounds great. Does precision
BF1 16 work well? Nope, because it's
nerfed on consumer cards. Anyways,
I actually am going to be messing around
with uh I got some ideas for how to
leverage BF16 though despite that. And
I'm going to probably be doing that on
Saturday
if you want to tune into that stream.
If this works after all this messing
around with LLMs, I will feel stupid
once again for attempting to LM
literally anything
when I can just go try to find example
code.
I didn't realize that there was any out
there to be fair. It was like in a niche
branch of this
There's got to just be a link arc for
this. No.
But look at this. Here's the uh particle
system.
GL.
Okay, so this gets
Oh, this actually even does the matrix
transform for me. Lovely.
So, all I have to do is I have to have
this modified so it can take an array of
colors, right?
Um because where is it getting the
points from
That's the only other thing I don't know
how to do.
This gets f this gets kind of esoteric
at this point, right?
Cuz we're kind of halfway between open
gel land and ray land.
even this doesn't work.
See?
Lovely.
This takes vertex color.
do the tutorial. Well, there's more to
it than that, Jess. So, this is there's
uh there are a couple more features to
add to um constellation. There's some
cleanup. Then, we have to actually like
get all the experiments into it. So,
there's more experiment side work and
then there's the performance work. So,
in my mind, they're kind of like three
parts to the next update. There is the
uh performance side work. There's the
running of a huge numbers of experiments
and getting everything correct and
getting all the data. And then there's
uh this visualizer. So this visualizer
dashboard is about a third of a major
update.
Another third is just like getting all
the environments nicely ready and having
all the experiments run in an easy to
reproduce way. And uh the third
component is the per optim.
All right. We will try this one more
time and then I will delete all of this
and I will go back to doing it myself.
If this one does not work, I go back. I
just close the LLM tab and I try to do
it myself because
LM stupid
and
Oh, okay. Yay. We get lucky for once.
So,
It's not done beyond waiting for
experiments because I have another dozen
m for which to do it. There's going to
be analysis on that as well. Jess
it's funny he did the gro like the gro
effects.
I hope he got a lot of business from
that.
I really try not to do that very much,
but like when I get into an area for
where I have very little knowledge and
there's very little documentation,
right, it's kind of just tough. Enough.
Uh yeah. So what happens when you do
that Jess is it gives you garbage.
If I can write the pseudo code, like I
can just write the Well,
the problem is it's like I only do this
when I have so little familiarity with
the API that I can't even do that,
right?
Like if it's just a matter of me looking
up the function names, I'll just be
like, "Hey, what's this function
called?" And I'll write the damn code.
I mean, this is like graphics
programming, which is something I have
very little experience with, but then
it's like it's halfway between just
OpenGL and also hooking into Ray Lib.
And there like a several other things
going on here as Oh,
Uh, okay. So, this works, but they're
they're super faded.
Yeah, they're like super faded. Why they
Why are they that faded?
0.5.
What the hell? Why is alpha that low?
discrete. Does puffer know how to
encode?
No, you shouldn't make your space a
tpple. Huffer actually does have a ton
of uh space like automatic space
handling stuff, but it's faster to just
do boxes and handle it manually, right?
Okay. So, this is uh dog [ __ ] is what
this is.
All right. This is why I don't use LMS.
See if I can figure it out.
Here's the original.
Here is this insane piece of
very clever code.
Hey,
heyF.
That FBR
fiber. Um,
doesn't look anywhere near like the
original does.
Does anybody know what this is doing?
I can't like
Yeah. So, FBR, I want to make I want to
make the points in the plot look like
these
Well, it wasn't
it wasn't able to implement it before,
so
doesn't vote well.
What the hell does that have to do with
anything FBR?
Wait, can't I just do this directly?
I totally can, right?
I'm just being dumb about it because I
don't know what I'm doing.
Um,
here. Wait.
prelib shader support.
Uh you end up having to get kind of more
OpenGL to do this fiber cuz it's you're
doing this off of a point array.
like you've got a big array of points.
This is going to look really freaking
cool if we can get it though.
If I can just get this to implement the
shader, I can get it ported, I believe,
into uh into Ray Lib.
Like, I just need this base thing and I
can figure out how to port it.
I don't know enough of the OpenGL,
right? Otherwise, but I think that I can
get this to run. I can basically just
refactor my plot functions
a little bit and I should be able to get
this to work There.
And then we'll just add like the current
one will just be the fallback basically.
All right, I think I'm just going to
what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to port it as is, right?
I'll just like port this as is and then
I'll see if I can get some help on uh on
how to get the shader into this.
Well, if it doesn't understand it, then
it can't be explaining it correctly,
right?
Okay, here's what I'll do. Here's what
I'll do, folks.
I'm going to start, you know, we're
going to leverage the chat a little bit.
We're going to make this audience
participation.
Here is the current shader code. It's
going into the chat.
Uh, that's going to kill all my new
lines, isn't it?
Well, it's okay. It's only a few lines.
There's the code. Um, if you can get
exor shader, it's just it's called star
here. Stars. If you can get this into
uh to work in this, that'd be awesome. I
am going to use a restroom real quick,
grab a coffee, do a couple sets, and
then I'm going to start porting the
current shader into the dashboard.
And then the idea is hopefully it's just
going to be a change to the fragment
shader to make it actually look good.
But I got to start in the integration so
that we actually get it into the
dashboard today.
and we'll be back.
Cuts off half the message. My bad. Let
me do that.
All right, I put this on the uh the
stream.
Let me check one message and then I will
start on the port and we will uh we'll
try to like get a couple however long it
takes me an hour or two hopefully to do
this.
here's the plan. Next couple hours, we
get this ported in.
You all see if you can figure out how to
do this with that shader,
and then we will put them together.
There's the goal.
the Twitter link to the three
you want you just want to give it the
effect
that is in the Yeah, exactly. So, I have
I got it doing this, which is like okay,
but the one in the tweet looks way
better. So, I basically just want to
port Exor's shader, his point shader to
this, and I'm going to get it into
constellation,
right? So, it's going to be like those
that style of point is going to be what
we use for our graph.
[Music]
It's like
It's better, but they're dark.
It's like they're dark.
I'll keep it. It's better, but it's not
the effect from before.
Well, it's not just tweak some numbers,
right? Like look, do this.
He literally has this as a demo online.
Right. Look how good this looks
here. Like try this in
try this in the in development. Right.
Like this looks really good by
comparison.
He has a variant on shader toy as well
there.
Oh,
better.
The points have like this black border
around them instead of attenuating
properly.
Do you open source these projects, my
guy? All this is open source.
Everything here on puffer.ai, including
all the RL, the training, the models,
like literally everything's open source
right here. Heck, you can even demo them
in your browser. And the demos are open
source as well. These are agents playing
the game in your browser. Everything
running locally.
is getting started in on RRL. Well, then
believe it or not, I have the exact
thing for you.
Here is all the information that I have
put out to help
all the people in Puffer uh to get into
this space without going mad with all
the crazy stuff involved with RL.
That guide has everything
I've had a go. I will check that in one
moment. Let me make sure I'm loading the
correct thing.
What the hell? Why does it only work
when you jiggle? That's like bizarro
now.
Let's see what you've put in the Discord
for me.
Where is this using time? Am I dumb?
Is this not using time?
Uh yeah, this one does not run
because
you only posted this chunk of it.
Try this.
Okay, this one does not work because
Oh, wait. Does this not work? It's not
handling these overlaps correctly.
Why does this have like a little box
around it?
The other one doesn't have a little box
around it, right?
Yeah, the other one doesn't have a box
around it,
but this is like muted. This one is
muted for some reason.
currently mechanics. Yours is maybe
better, but it's got this error with the
boxes.
I'm going to let you guys play with your
shaders for a few minutes while I keep
integrating this.
Nope.
So mechanics there's um however you're
attenuating this there is a ring of
black around each point you can very
clearly see it where they overlap
in this shader there is not a ring of
black
I'm fairly certain
at least there actually might be to be
It's less noticeable.
You can both figure that out. I'm
leveraging the open source community. We
are crowdsourcing the shader.
It might be I have to screw with the
blend mode as well.
That's even worse, man. That's got a box
around it. So, the second version
you gave me um
the second version draws a circle around
it in black and the first version draws
a box.
Oh, FBR has gotten me.
A new version as well.
I'm going to have to say that one does
not win.
missing.
Oh, okay. I just goobered it. Never
mind.
Wait, what? Where is it missing? Uh, a
close.
Am I just not seeing it, man?
Are you sure? It doesn't look like um
it doesn't look like it, man.
Keep going on that for a second while I
finish this.
Yeah,
I try not to goober stuff that bad,
you know.
Wait, does he literally have a function
for this?
That's just like absurd.
He just has everything thought of.
I be able to run this fine on Omar Gi? I
do not see why not.
I was able to train but not render. What
error did you get rendering?
Were you doing it in a Docker?
You might have to set some stuff up if
you're trying to render in a Docker.
It would be if it's not rendering on
your base system, like you have don't
have OpenGL set up or some weird thing
like you're missing drivers.
Hey, miss mechanics. Let me fix this and
then I will I'll go do another passenger
stuff.
So if you're using Docker
um
you need to have pass through.
There's like some Docker thing you have
to do.
like this display probably
X11.
I would say go figure out go get X size
to run. Go get like standard X size to
run and then it should work.
Yeah,
there's stuff in the Discord on this.
That's a Docker thing, not a puffer
thing. Most likely.
Oh, there are points. They're just in
the wrong spot.
Let me fix this and then I will uh I'll
go through the shaders again.
with height. Oh,
so I can I pass ex to this
Let me figure this out mechanics and
we'll get there.
I had to figure out why it's not
rendering.
Yes. So this is um
this is directly in
green quartz
Oh,
okay. Cool.
what are your thoughts about Jacks?
One moment, sir.
We got this for Jacks right here.
That's what we do.
Look, Jax is just bad and you should
feel bad for liking it. Okay, that's all
there is to it.
If you'd like, there's some profiles
there's some profile tests in the Puffer
repo. So,
if you want to see if if you want to see
if you can make Jacks like way faster
than PyTorch or something, be my guest.
But so far it's not faster and it's just
worse.
Yeah, we got to fix some nan [ __ ]
Fiber. What about M's implemented in
Jacks? Even worse. Completely stupid.
Literally no reason to do that ever.
literally learn to write anything that
isn't Python.
You want your M to run on the GPU, write
some CUDA. It's not hard. Hell, I'll
probably be doing it over the weekend on
stream.
Don't need to recompile. It's just a
shader.
All right. That explodes.
So,
oh, because I forgot the version tag,
right?
Uh, this is explody
because it added a float time for some
dumb reason.
This has the black This is the black
circles version.
you explain what these four screens are
showing? Kind of, but it's not exactly
done yet.
So, we got tne of uh hyperparameter
embeddings. We've got stable ranges of
hyperparameters.
We can do like
above 0.9 PF,
right? We can do like under 100 cost
and then this is just like a scatter of
anything you like.
Right? So this is all your like 2D plots
and then we've got 3D
scatter of all the data and you can
filter this as well.
[ __ ] Ace. Yeah. Stable ranges, man.
All local. I'm going to give you a
binary file and you're going to run this
thing local or on your browser cuz it's
all C.
It's going on the Puffer website.
You load like one or two megs and then
you just have this.
Early for Christmas. It's probably not
going to be out until Christmas. I'm
going to be honest with you. for like
puffer 4 because this is only this
dashboard is about onethird of puffer 4.
When it's fully done with all the bells
and whistles, this dashboard is going to
be onethird of puffer 4.
Stable range is always contiguous.
Um, no.
cuz it's just it's overlaying all the
different environments worth of mins and
maxes.
What do I want for Christmas, man? I
want my freaking shoulder to work again
so I can get my like 165 overhead press
back. That'd be awesome.
The other two/3s
will be developed right here on live
stream.
One of them is going to be getting all
the data for this plot like all the
experiments and releasing the full data
set of experiments along with the
dashboard.
And the uh the third one is going to be
some pretty intensive PF optimization
that we will be starting probably this
Saturday all day on stream.
Oh yeah. Hey guys, we have a good number
of people watching at the moment. So I'm
going to leave this up to um hang on,
let me mute my music.
I'm going to leave this up to community
vote here. So I can either continue
working on this right now for the next
uh 2 hours until I get dinner or I can
take a 30 minuteish 20 to 30 minute
break right now and I can do a quick
tutorial session going through the
target code which is like the simple
tutorial multi-agent environment in
puffer lib. Uh, and the reason I would
do this is because I have to give a
presentation tomorrow to an academic lab
where I go over this and I'm using I
could use you all as guinea pigs and
give you a little tutorial in the
process.
Do you want to keep on this or take a
quick break?
What happened to the shoulder? Well,
what happened was I had some contractors
outside that right when I went to go
lift some heavy weights, they were like
looking in my window like this and threw
me off and I went with a 45, which isn't
even that heavy, but a 45 at an angle
like that. Was it 45? Might have been a
60. I don't freaking know. It was some
weight.
And I tked my torqued my shoulder and
it's been 3 months and the damn thing
refuses to heal.
All right, we'll do quick presentation.
I'm in a good mood because this [ __ ] is
awesome. So, we'll take a quick break,
do this, and then I will be expecting
shaders from you both.
That was pretty blonde.
Yeah, I don't break my shoulders that
way though. I don't like pull my
shoulders with that.
If they were 60s, then I think both of
them together would be lighter or would
be heavier, right, than one of those
45s. I can't do that with two hands. No,
you totally can. Uh Kathy Woos lab,
we've got a little collab with them. I
really haven't done enough for them
because I I promised them I would help
them with some stuff and I've given them
a few small things here and there, but
I'd like to get them like all the labs
that are still doing cool RL. I'd like
to be assisting more. I'm just one guy.
I got limited time, you know.
Um, okay.
So,
quick tutorial.
We need to commit this in order for that
to work, don't we?
Yes, we need to commit this in order for
this to work.
That let me commit all my stuff up.
Okay. So,
here's going to be the tutorial.
Okay, this is the environment that we're
going to do the quick tutorial on.
This is the simplest possible
multi-agent environment. You have
puffers. Puffers eat stars. Why do
puffers eat stars? the eight stars to
remind you to star puffer lib on GitHub.
It's free. All my work is open source.
It helps me out a ton.
But these puffers are not very good at
getting stars, which is very unfortunate
because puffer lib needs lots of stars.
So, how do we make the puffers get more
stars?
Well, what happens if we just run puffer
train on puffer target
and we just sit here and I stall for
about I don't know two or three
sentences worth of speech because that's
all the time that it's going to take to
run training on this for 100 million
steps. And there you go. That's 40 mil.
It's about halfway done. You're watching
here this little local dashboard with
losses and hardware utilization. And
then there's this episode length
performance metric which should be going
down. This one's not going down as much
as it should be, but it'll still be a
decent enough policy.
I probably didn't run my setup fully
correct. We'll add load model path
latest
and still decent policy, right? Buffers
eat stars.
So that's 100 million steps of training,
which normally would be something that
labs would have to run overnight and
like break the bank for some fancy GPUs.
I just ran this on my desktop in less
than 30 seconds. So how does this work?
Well, it's pretty simple. You just have
to write literally anything but Python.
Let's show you how you uh you make a new
envo. Because this target environment
took me maybe three or four hours to
make and document total back when I uh I
did it. environment
is called target. You'll see that there
are some files in here. We have a
binding file. We have a C. We have ah we
have api. Let's look at thepy first so
you get something familiar.
This is about one screen worth of code.
There's no actual logic in here.
There's just some minutes. You set up
your space shapes. This is pretty
standard. gymnasium heading zoo any RL
library of your choice will have this we
define them in terms of single obs or
single action spaces which is per agent
we set a couple required properties and
then here is our init which we in a loop
we make num m's copies of the C
environment and I will get to this
syntax in just a moment but first the
rest of this is just wrapper around
reset wrapper around step
this is calling logging to add stuff
into the infos and then a wrappers And
the thing at the bottom is just a
performance test where I run this in a
loop for 10 seconds and see how many
steps it can take. How many steps can it
take?
We're going to run this perf test for 10
seconds.
And target runs at a grand total on one
singular core of
34 million 35 million steps per second.
Not bad. Try doing that in Python.
So here's the magic behind that. Um this
is a vector format by default, meaning
that the tensors here, the obs that are
returned are already going to be
aggregated across multiple agents and
environments. These are contained inside
of this buff object here that you can
pass. If you give it a buff equals none,
it'll make its own buffers. But when I
run this with multipprocessing, buffers
get passed in and the environment knows
how to populate these buffers. All this
super init does is set self.observations
equals buff.observations, self.actions
equals buff.Actions, etc., etc. And what
you do here is you're going to take
slices of the buffer. So here if there
are uh let's see eight agents per
environment then this observation is
taking row zero so 0 * num agents is
zero up to i + 1 * num agents is 8 rows
0 through 8 of the observations tensor
same for all the other ones you also can
pass other params like this uh these
buffers are actually aggregated across
all the different cores that we're going
to use and they are put into shared
memory meaning that this environment
here is going to compute its
observations in the CC code directly
into shared memory. That means there are
zero redundant copies required when you
go to use this data on the main thread.
That is how puffer is so fast. It has no
overhead, no redundant copies, no
[ __ ] All right. So, how do we
actually make our M's work in C like
this nicely? Well, first of all, Puffer
comes with a nice little utility to save
you some time.
It's called this binding file format
with this nbinding.h.
So when you want to define a new
environment, you need a little bit of
glue that makes it work with Python.
This is that glue. This is including
theh file which includes which has all
the logic for your environment. You tell
it the name of your environment. You
include our binding file. This binding
file is what lets us run a loop over
many copies of your environment and
manage holding multiple copies of your
environment for you aggregating logs and
stuff like that. You can read this file
if you like. It's 6 to 800 lines. Uh it
has Python API garbage in it, but if you
can squint a little bit, it's not that
complicated.
Two things that you're going to want to
do in here. One is you're going to want
to initi
requiring. So in this case we pass in
the width and the height of the
environment as well as the number of
agents and the number of stars or goals.
We also can call methods directly from
theh file. We can call this init
function in particular which handles our
memory allocations.
Additionally we have to tell the
environment what data we want to take
out of it for logs. You can do that like
this.
And now there's only one other file
required which is the actual meat and
potatoes. The logic this whole file is
233 lines including the rendering
it is nicely commented but because I am
here I'm going to do the job of the
comments for you
whatever standard stuff you want to
include
and then we use ray for rendering
the way to think of this is that there
are a few required structures uh in here
that puffer lib expects and is going to
look for and then other than that you
just write what the [ __ ] you want you
write arbitrary logic it's not jacks
where you have to write everything as
Jacks. It's not like some framework
where you have to write everything as a
framework op. You just write arbitrary
code and C is fast. So your environment
is fast.
This log strct is required. This tells
you what data you're going to take out
of the environment and send to wi or
Neptune or whatever plots you want. This
variable here is very important. It
tells you how many logs have currently
been accumulated. It is the last element
of the strct. Do not forget it. It is a
float. Everything in the strruct is a
float. Do not forget this. It will bite
you. C is not very friendly when you do
things wrong. But we have lots of
guardrails for you.
Uh I suggest including these sorts of
metrics. Performance, which is a
normalized score, a score, a return, and
an episode length. But you can put
whatever you want here.
Usually there's going to be some sort of
client strct. This is not required. You
might want some strcts for representing
various states like the agent or the
goal. Not required. And then you get the
environment strct which we expect you to
have a strct for your environment. It's
C. There are no classes. This is what
you're going to have. What's up Kevin?
We're doing a quick tutorial live.
You must have a log here. It must be
called log. Do this. You must have OBS,
actions, rewards, and terminals arrays
like this. Do it exactly like this.
Except you're allowed to have different
data types for your observations. Make
sure it matches the data type in the py.
You're allowed to have interflat
actions. Make sure it matches matches
the data type in the py. If they do not
match, you will be sad.
Anything else you want to put in here is
whatever you else you want to put in
here. In particular, we added these
params to tell you environment
specifications. This is what was getting
set from the binding file. And this is
the init function that we were setting
from the binding file. C is very scary
because you have to manage memory. Let
me show you how scary it is. You call
your allocations here in it and then on
close you call free. That is it. That is
the entire scariness of memory
management in C. Lo and behold, you
don't actually need to allocate memory
99% of the time except when you're
editing your initial environment.
And then from here, we pretty much just
have arbitrary environment logic, which
looks like literal freshman CS 101.
Okay, maybe CS 102 because it's your
first systems course, not your first
general programming course. But the
actual logic is going to be very
readable here. Here we have a function
to set new goals. It takes a pointer to
the environment. It loops over agents
because loops are fast. It loops over
goals because loops are fast. And then
it's just going to say, hey, if uh the
puffer is not close to the goal, keep
going or loop out. Otherwise, if the
puffer is close enough to the goal,
we're going to set a new goal and we're
going to add some variables to the logs
to say, hey, that we hit the goal and
this puffer is uh has reached to where
it needs to go for now and create a new
goal. Observation computation. This is
the thing that writes directly into
shared memory. You don't have to do
anything whatsoever special in order to
make it do that. We loop over agents. We
loop over the number of obs here. Make
sure that you are accessing like the
correct addresses in memory here. Like
if you have 12 obs and you're writing
outside of bounds, you will be sad. But
as long as you're not doing that, the
actual code here is quite simple.
You go over goals. We check distance to
goal. That seems like a good type of
observation to put in. Distance to other
agents. That seems like a good type of
observation. And a few things about the
current agent as well. That is your
entire observation calc.
Reset function.
We randomize the positions. No big deal.
Don't forget to recmp compute obs. Have
a little helper method there. And then
here's your step method. Lo and behold,
we loop over agents. Don't forget to
zero out buffers. You would like to zero
out your reward buffer. If you're if you
have an an environment that resets, make
sure you also zero out your terminals
here. C does not zero out buffers for
you if you don't do it yourself. So, you
do it here.
Going to be the theme of things. Um,
this is the physics, if you can call it
that. The agent goes in its heading at a
specific speed. Here's the position
update, and then every so often we reset
the agent. In really long lived
environments, it's pretty helpful to
just jiggle the agents once in a while.
Update your goals, compute new ops.
That's the entire logic of this end. The
render code is one screen. God bless Ray
Lib.
and client is null. Then we make a
client.
We load some textures.
And then here's your draw loop.
We just clear the background. We go
through the goals. We draw a star for
each goal. And then we draw a puffer for
each puffer for each agent. And we flip
the puffer uh right here. We flip the
puffer in the direction that needs to
that it's like facing in. Here's your
close function. It frees some stuff. It
unloads some textures. That's it. That's
your entire logic. That's all it takes
to write a high-perf environment in C.
Now, the one other thing I want to
mention here is there is a C file in
here. And this C file is kind of cool
for two reasons. First,
if I run this, you'll notice the puffers
are actually doing things even though
it's pure C. How on earth is it possible
that these puffers are smart without
PyTorch? Because this is just C. Well,
we have our own little mini version of
PyTorch that we use and we can load
weights into. This is what we do for our
web demos. We compile these networks to
web assembly. This is kind of
complicated. You don't have to worry
about this if you're just designing
environments for personal use. We just
do this for our demos. But as you can
see, it's not actually that much code as
long as you're using a standard network
architecture. If you ignore the things
that look like LSTM or network or
whatever else, then the only thing in
here is making a strct out of the
environment, calling in it, allocating
your buffers,
and then it's reset render, you know,
step render, step render. You could
replace this with random actions, right?
Like this random actions.
And the reason that this exists other
than the demos is because I don't
suggest that you try to recompile
everything with Python every time you
want to do this stuff. I suggest that
you do all your environment dev and C
including the build because the build is
instant.
You don't have to wait for stuff to
recompile. You get actual proper C
messages. And if you use this local
flag, you will actually get sane error
messages too with address sanitizer and
everything else enabled for you.
uh if you compile it with fast on, it'll
be way faster, but you don't get the
nice error messages.
It's plenty fast either way.
That is all you need to know to write
high performance environments. That is
pretty much the entire set of techniques
that we use across like all the much
more complicated environments. There are
not This is not the martial art where
there are thousand different kicks to
learn. This is the martial art where
there's one kick to learn and you just
get really good at it. Any questions?
How do we have one model with 128 and
another with 64 like a smart and a dumb
puffer?
That would be moderately annoying to do.
Kvert.
You could hack something, but it's not
like a standard feature that we plan
around.
Does anybody have questions on the
actual tutorial?
Oh, yeah. I promised this guy a uh
a summary as well for his meeting.
Let me go write this guy a quick
paragraph summary for um
a quick paragraph summary because I
totally forgot to give him one for my
talk tomorrow.
Okay, let me go write these guys a quick
paragraph and then I will answer all
remaining questions.
how to sweep. I will show let me answer
all these in one second.
I will answer all the questions in one
moment. I'm sending this guy a quick
title for my talk and a quick bio he
wanted.
Let me answer all the questions.
Come now. Bring me your questions. I
will answer them.
In your opinion, why does scaling
network size not improve performance in
PO?
Kevin, it actually very much does. It's
just that the cap out is way lower than
you would expect.
Like the the tradeoff between uh compute
and data exists. It's just that it skews
way more towards data uh than you would
expect like if you're coming from
supervised learning.
How to sweep?
Um you just run like instead of puffer
train, you run puffer sweep and it
sweeps. You just have to set up either
wi or neptune and you can pass d- womb
or d- Neptune. You can give it a tag and
it'll run all the experiments for you.
How is shoulder? Shoulder is annoying. I
can if I do even machine press of like a
100, I it starts hurting.
I really need to just dedicate some time
to like doing
a bunch of rehab exercises on it.
I have a custom gym environment and I
want to transfer to Puffarel. Should I
use Puffarel and Python? Convert to C.
You definitely want C. The C is really
really easy. Just like follow my
tutorials and it I promise you it'll be
a lot simpler than you'd think.
How do I avoid Nans and Puffer? That is
actually mostly my fault, not yours. Um,
it tends to happen well if you have
egregiously bad hyperparameters, it can
happen with discreet, but typically you
get it with continuous ends. And uh it's
just like the hypers are more sensitive
honestly cuz we have working stuff with
continuous as well but it seems like
it's more sensitive and there's probably
like some additional clip terms we need
to add for continuous ms to make it more
stable. So that's kind of partially my
fault.
where can I find tutorial for
transferring my environment?
So, a couple places. one, if you scroll
back in this video, I literally just did
right uh the full walkth through
like 15 minutes ago of uh a C
environment.
If you go to our docs,
there's literally only one tutorial on
the docs, writing your own 1 million
step per second environment.
This looks really short, right? But the
thing is it links to everything.
So this is pure Python, pure Python
demo.
This is C demo of simple environment.
And then down here as a second tutorial,
right, is the one that I just went over.
And there's even a template that you can
use as a starting point. So I don't know
what else I can do other than give you
this is like literally one page to read
and then code as references. And this
tells you everything.
If I have paper, if I have a paper with
code that was done using offpaul
but I want to transfer using puffer
algos with puffer's
the you' mostly be trying puffer's
implementation with the environments
used in off-paul research or you would
be like using fixed environments and
then messing with puffer to like adapt
the algorithm. them.
I don't know what else you mean by that.
I think it happens.
I think it happens if we start acing an
env.
I
It's some weird thing trying to
replicate using sack.
Well, do you want to replicate the
algorithm? like do you want to replicate
the exact thing in the paper or do you
want to replicate like do you want to
solve the environment right cuz puffer
is not a repository of a whole bunch of
different algorithms. Huffer just has
the current best algorithm that we
current like that we know exists, right?
You can like the Puffer thing is Puffer
is one file, right? So you can cut and
paste like chunks of algorithm
implementations into it and run
experiments and then Puffer gives you a
really really fast way to run
experiments, right? You can totally do
that, but you're not going to have like
Puffer Sack out of the box.
Yeah, it's puffer is you basically treat
puffer like clean RL where you just edit
chunks of the code and it's maybe like
it's maybe like twice as hard to edit
puffer as it is to edit clean RL cuz
like editing clean RL is completely
trivial, right? But then the thing is
Puffer is 100 or a thousand times faster
depending. So it's like a decent enough
tradeoff.
It's a heck of a lot easier to edit than
anything else other than clean RL,
that's for sure.
It's basically as close to clean
simplicity as I can get it, but fast.
Did I answer all the questions? I think
I got all the questions.
I was saying with puffer adapt it's
pretty easy to edit puffer once I
figured it out. Yep. Honest opinion
about SP3.
Uh well it was better than it was better
than open AI baselines which is like SP3
is really old right? So when I say like
SP3 is bad, I'm not saying that like hey
uh the author is like was it Francisco?
Yeah. I'm not saying the author is an
idiot, right? That's not what I'm
saying. There are projects where I am
saying that the author is an idiot, but
this is not one of them. So the thing is
that like this is really really old.
Okay. And
it's like successor to stable baselines
which was a fork of open AAI baselines
which was the original implementations
of these algorithms and these
implementations sucked. So like it was a
lot of incremental progress of trying to
make this code not suck while not
breaking the algorithm which is
incredibly finicky even more finicky
than it is now right and that was really
hard. Now, I think the better version of
this was Costa's Clean RL, which I
actually don't know how when Costa
originally did Clean RL. This was like
the totally visionary project, right?
I actually don't even know how old this
thing is. Can you see somewhere
if you do um
but yeah this was the genius one. Now,
there are other projects like in RL that
are just like stupid and bad, which are
basically ones that had the advantage of
seeing clean RL and SP3 exist and made
something even worse. But, uh, yeah, SP3
is bad by today's standards. It was very
good compared to the original baselines
code, right?
Like nowadays though, you like you'd
kind of be you'd be pretty stupid to
like start doing stuff in SP3 though.
Um, if you don't want to use Puffer
because Puffer is like too complicated
for your tastes. First of all, SP3 is
more complicated than Puffer. So, if you
want something simple, you'd use clean
RL. That's what you would do.
Okay.
Has anybody got me a shader?
I see. Mechanics has got sent me a
shader.
So, uh, X XF8. I do have to be clear
though, uh, the jacks thing. So, if you
want to use Jax for training and you
wanted to like port Puffer to Jax cuz
you like Jax, that's like I think it's
kind of a bad library and it's really
unstable and it's not actually faster,
but that's kind of up to you, right? You
can defend using Jacks for training. If
you use Jacks for environments, you're
trolling. You're just straight trolling.
There's literally no defense whatsoever
of using Jacks for environments.
So there is the information for you.
Let me get Mechanics's uh shader thing
and we will go back to
Yeah, he's jacked for environment if you
link me. So, it just ate your link. But
if you're going to link me, the only
good ones I know of are like craft axe.
So, that is what happens. Is it Wait,
which one are you linking me?
Just give me the name of the
environment. YouTube's going to eat
links.
Why is crafter and net hack good for RL?
So crafter is not good for RL. Crafter
is terrible for RL. Craft axe is like
decent for RL. Uh Net Hack is not great
for RL, but it could be amazing for RL
with a little bit of edge work that I
have not had time to do. Um Neuralarmm 3
is really, really amazing for RL. And if
multi-agent is not a problem, then you
should just be doing it. Yes,
neural MMO could be even better for RL.
The network architecture is limited to
like I've gotten 500,000 training.
Net hack is way harder than neural MMO.
Net hack is a better environment. It
just needs some edge to make it fast.
This was adapted from exord on shader
toy. Oh, okay. Uh, do we need the
resolution though?
So I guess we just have to add
resolution in. Is that it,
But where's the uh when you say it's
super fast, where are the speeds?
2 million.
10 million is very solid.
single layer transformers.
I actually don't know how many params
that is.
Though I do know for sure that that does
not include Craftex because Craftex
itself doesn't run that fast.
uh okay cuz it's a very simple
environment is why
yeah so okay very well uh I will explain
to you then what this is so first of all
10 mil is actually very good so 10 mil
is very hard to get uh we currently get
up to 5 mil at the moment moment. Uh
that is with FP32 though. So we don't
actually do BF-16 a bunch because it's
usually nerfed on this. Though I will be
probably doing compile stuff for this.
Uh there's basically no other projects
that do like that speed is just
non-existent just about anywhere. And
there are going to be some limitations
here. So here's the problem with uh with
doing this in JS, right? When you try to
make this environment more complicated
in Jax, it gets slow and there's nothing
you can do about it because GPUs are not
designed to do this or at the very least
like Jax is not designed to do branching
logic for more complex MS. The proof of
this is Crafter or Craftax specifically.
Uh this is made by a very talented
author. The code is horrendous to read
compared to what it would look like in
C. And CraftX classic gets up to a/4
mill steps per second and Craft X gets
up to like a 100,000 steps per second.
So, and it's harder to write code like
this.
So, that's why you don't do this.
I actually have something that is going
into the next Puffer update that I think
will get us far above 10 million steps
per second uh with environments that are
not going to be limited to being this
simple and that will actually
potentially even stick some of them on
the GPU.
I am actually very curious though about
this single layer transformer thing.
Is this a temporal transformer
or is this um
Yeah, is this a temporal transformer?
Was it that will get you that fast
in those environments? So, uh, we're
going to we're basically just going to
do some compile shenanigans, Tim. And I
actually think we're going to play with
GPU environments, but I'm not going to
use Jacks for them. I'm literally going
to take the C code and I'm going to copy
paste it into a CUDA file and I'm going
to run it and I'm going to go
cuz that's all you got to do.
There is not a paper for this.
Well, the PF on this is actually quite
good. Um, I don't like this thing needs
to actually have some bench marks
because I don't know how big the nets
are.
Oh, this is actually very very good.
Like the stuff he has in here.
It's a lot of files for something this
size, though.
There's definitely some good stuff in
here.
There's very definitely some good stuff.
Who is this guy?
Gabriel Keith.
Is he on Xelt?
Huh? That's funny. Well, this is one of
the more capable things that I've seen.
When did he do this?
Yeah. I mean, this is definitely one of
the more capable things I've seen.
So the one convenient thing about Jacks,
right, is if you're not going to do CUDA
environments, like if you're going to do
CPU environments, you actually need some
of the stuff that Puffer Lib has to make
them fast. Whereas with Jax, you just
need Jacks. But the thing is, Jax makes
your life miserable uh in order for you
to be able to do that. So,
but yeah, I can't say anything bad about
the uh the project overall. This is like
very very capably done.
You just kind of may give yourself a
headache with the jacks.
Does this look fun to write to you?
Like does it like seriously does this
look fun to write?
It's all array ops. The entire logic of
the game has to be array ops, right?
So that's why you don't do jacks is
because then you end up having to do
that crap
and doesn't scale.
It's very capably done.
I'll say that.
That blows away most of the uh top lab
things that I see.
Oh, we got puffer lib. Next version of
puffer li will be much faster as well.
Mhm.
I will give you like that that was
that's one of the better Jacks things
I've seen, but um the limitation is that
the like the environments are pretty
simple, right?
Jack starts to bite you when
environments get more complex because it
just it makes env hard. And the thing is
the vast majority of dev in RL like
puffer liib is a few thousand lines of
code and then 50,000 lines of C for the
environments. The vast majority of the
code is in the environment. You really
don't want to make environment dev hard.
So that's why you really don't see a ton
of complex interesting M's in JS
because it's a pain in the ass.
Okay, mechanics. What is up with your uh
what's up with your shaders? Why is it
why is it like this?
Yep, that's a successful compile. It's
just gray.
You straight up showed the trash after I
asked you about Jacks.
Yeah,
because it makes your life miserable.
All right. You want Here, let me show
you. Right.
So, Craft X is in Jacks, right?
And that's like one of the probably the
most complex M's out there. And it's
slow. So, there's still zero fast
complex M in Jacks, right?
This runs 1.5 million steps per second
per CPU core.
This has a leveling system. This has
hostile enemies. This has melee and
ranged weapons. This has an equipment
system. This has a market with in which
agents can trade with each other.
I would not want to implement this in
JS. Would you?
As it is, any freshman undergrad can
read this code. This code is like brain
deadad simple C. You read one file top
to bottom. That's the whole whole entire
environment.
And by the way, I'm not limited on
complexity here. So once we solve this,
there's going to be a neural MMO 4
that's going to be way more interesting.
And maybe it's like five or 6 thousand
lines of code, right?
And it's going to be really easy, simple
code. And it's not going to be hard for
me to write because I wrote this when I
was brand new to C, brand new to systems
programming, having done Python and
nothing but Python for a decade.
So this is why I don't like Jax, right?
This is why Jax pisses me off because
Jax pushes us away from doing things
like this. I want RL on more
interesting, complex environments. I
don't want RL to get faster, but only on
simple, stupid environments, right? It's
got to get fast and complex.
How far far does Current solve get?
About a third of the way. This policy
that you're watching here is better than
I am at the game. It gets a little bit
um it kind of gets a little bit aimless
when it doesn't have anything immediate
to do, but mechanically it's better than
I am. And it gets about a third of the
way through the game on average.
Why jump from Python to C for the RL
here? Well, the the training is not in
C. The training is just PyTorch. It's
optimized PyTorch, but it's just
PyTorch. You could defend using Jacks
for training. I think Python is
generally cleaner, but you could at
least defend Jacks for training. You
really can't defend using Jacks for the
environments.
Does it need to do anything to not die?
No, it cannot starve. It does have to
avoid enemies.
Uh the other thing is that this policy
uh this is a port of the policy to see
so that I can put it on the website. So
there are a couple errors with the
policy. It's a little better if you run
it locally. If I just can I hit control?
Yeah, I can take over for this guy here
and then I'm going to give him control
back. So now I'm not playing anymore. So
now he's unstuck.
How on earth did you know neural mo3
would be RL solvable before writing all
the time writing that? If only I'd done
a PhD on that exact topic.
And to be fair, that's me being
arrogant. Uh it really wasn't solved for
quite a while. Like the initial policies
were very very bad at this.
I didn't even do a ton of work on this
from puffer two to puffer three. I kind
of just improved the algorithm and the
agent got the agent got better.
How'd you get this deep into RL? Been
doing it for a decade, almost a decade,
over a decade for ML in general.
Carbon, if you're interested in RL and
you're trying to get involved, I do have
educational materials as well. They're
free. Uh they're just on my X tab. This
guide is a very, very easy way to get
into RL. There's a lot less math than in
Sutton and Bardau. You should still
reference Sutton and Bardau, but this
will get you building RL environments
and actually training agents um in like,
you know, hours to days.
pretty much everybody in uh everybody
who is new around Puffer got started
with that stuff and most of these
environments are made by contributors.
Barely started with Docker and
Kubernetes, man. I don't know cub I
don't know how to use Cube, okay? Like
you don't need to know how to use
Kubernetes to do this like at all. You
need to just know basic low-level
systems programming and some AI
fundamentals.
Oh, Carbon. It was really cool back
then. It's not cool now. Now it's like
lame because of LLMs. Back then was like
Dota. That's when it was cool.
Have I missed the tutorial? Yes, Jess.
But you can just scroll back in the VOD.
Wait, let me answer some questions here.
Uh,
SP3 runs 10,000 steps per minute. That
is garbage.
Uh, yeah. So, neural MMO 3 trains at
500,000 per second on one GPU. Most of
the M's in Puff are train at millions.
How long did the train train this
policy? Yeah. So, everything except
neural MMO you don't have to train for
very long. Neural MMO is the hardest
environment. I trained this for 650
billion steps, which was like 3 days on
a 6GPU box. pretty much everything else.
You can train something cool in a couple
of minutes.
You started the PhD not knowing. Uh, I'd
already been working on neural MMO for 2
years before I had started my PhD.
Hey, Asa,
thank you very much. Oh yeah, there's
the Discord as well. Yeah, for folks who
are new around here, go to the GitHub.
It's free. All this is open sourced.
Helps me out a ton. and then everybody's
just on the Discord. If you're trying to
get into RL, you just follow the guide
and you start building cool environments
and you get RL to work on them. You PR
some of the environments. More
environments get added to this and then
more environments get used for research
and then once you've done a few of
those, you can actually start on some of
the research side stuff as well. But the
easiest and most fun way to get involved
is just to like jam some low-level
gamedev and CRL actually work on
something that you've made.
My agent is not improving. Should I
sweep more, increase model, try
different architecture? Uh, you should
debug a little bit to make sure that you
don't have environment problems because
almost always it's an environment
problem. And after that, then you should
just run sweeps. Yeah, everyone builds
RL agents. You have agent that's better
than everyone else's. No, everybody does
LLM RL now. Very, very few people do
what I do. Multi agent PO and use Dota
for benchmark. I do fat take. Use Dota
for a benchmark.
Wait, what? What are you talking about?
Like, Open AAI 5 beat top pros at Dota.
That is, in my opinion, the best result
in the field. Feel a lot of your ideas.
I'm going to genuinely get 10 FPS.
Two years before and get younger. I
actually technically speaking the first
time I tried to do neural MMO I was 16
maybe 17. I had no idea what I was doing
so it failed horribly. I tried it again
when I was like 18 and I still didn't
know what I was doing so it failed. And
then I tried again when I was I think
19.
Yeah, 19 or 20 maybe 20. And then that
became my PhD.
Puffel is a gem. Thank you very much.
To debug, I tend to render in print f.
Okay. Kvert, at least use GDB. Okay. At
least use GDB.
What's the difference between what you
do and everyone else? Uh because almost
all the discussion about RL these days
is LLMs.
I do everything but LLMs, right? Most of
these models are between 100,000 and a
few million parameters.
They're these tiny superhuman models.
You can train them at home on your
desktop. Actually, you can see all my
servers right behind me, right?
Like I got the uh the couple of white
boxes up there are the six GPU tiny
boxes and then the rest of those are
just standard desktops.
Google APIs to mine YouTube. What?
Trying to keep up with the latest
research channels. You don't actually
need to consume that much content to
learn this stuff.
You basically just need a couple sources
of content that isn't wrong.
RL to improve LM. Yeah. Yeah. So Carbon,
it's like RL to improve LLM perf
basically. Like that's the main stuff
that people are doing these days. So
this is one of the only places honestly
I think puffer is now the biggest open-
source at least it's the fastest growing
open source RL project at this point
right like this is the growth on puffer
right this is when I started working on
it full-time
this is like right when I graduated
What was a mistake you learned
relatively way later? Not doing
low-level dev. Like literally just
spending too much time being stuck to
Python and not doing low-level dev. That
was a huge mistake.
Like this is one of those things that
I'm so confident about I will be just
like you know just put your opinion
aside like go follow the tutorial do
some low-level dev you will see that it
is very easy and you will see that this
is actually the smart way to do things.
I don't think I've had a single person
say, "Actually, I think I'm going to go
back to writing these things in Python."
Or, "Actually, I think I just want to
write Jacks." I don't think I've had a
single person do that.
All right. Um, let me use a restroom
real quick. Quick bench set and then
we're going to finish the shaders. Okay.
I'd be back.
benchmark offpaul.
Tim, I tried a lot of offpaul stuff.
None of it worked. Like I tried in
Puffer. I tried a ton of popular repos.
Basically all the impulse suck.
It's kind of just rough.
No, that's what we see during training.
Jess, that's not Eval.
We can get Nurmo to 500k like proper.
And we can get a lot of the simpler M's
to like three to four, sometimes 5
million.
All right,
getting some decent sets in today.
Bench strength is not coming back as
quickly as I would have liked though.
I just got to bench more.
I'm on his reading list. It looks like
that's fun.
What have you highlighted?
Try this next.
Okay.
I mean this still has the dark circles
around it, doesn't it?
I guess it does kind of stand out
nicely.
I guess I'm going to make some uh
some small mods here.
The dark circles are dependent on what
you discard
in the if statement.
Is it just blend mode?
Like, do I just need to set the blend
mode to something else?
Yeah, that's real glowy.
I don't I can't tell if it's still
It looks like the 2D ones still have the
circles and the 3D ones don't somehow.
Let's see if we can make this pretty.
Now,
hit my headset back. I got 1 hour of dev
left in me for uh before dinner, and I'm
probably going to do a night stream as
well.
I'm feeling good on uh on dev today.
You're like much more alive than during
that cut. Yeah.
So, all right. I'll
Dude, do you understand what a 1,500
calorie a day cut is?
Like, so a 1500 calorie a day cut is
like if you're a pro bodybuilder and you
[ __ ] up your diet so that you need to
get on stage and like you don't have as
long as you think. That's what you do.
It's completely psychotic.
That was kind of the point
is I wanted to set myself like a totally
psychotic
thing for that block of fitness.
I'm actually still dialing in calories
right now. I want to be at a slight
bulk. I think I might be at maintenance
and I might need a few hundred more a
day. We'll see.
I mean, it worked to be fair, right? I
got cut in like six weeks.
How are user stats calculated? User
stats are everything that goes into your
log field and it gets aggregated across
all ends
only at the end of the M. Nope. It's
whenever you specify
it's it's whatever you specify in the
environment logic. So all that our
logging system does it gives you a spot
to store logs and then it handles
accumulation across MS for you. You can
write whatever you want in there. Uh
usually it's at the end of episode but
not all Ms do that. Not all ends have
episodes.
Carbon diet coach.
So Tim, it I have the opposite problem.
Diets are like diets are easy, bulks are
hard.
The whole reason I did a 1500 cal is
because it's like I know that that is
something that is relatively easier for
me. If you try to make me do a 1500 cal
bulk, I'm dying.
All right, this fixed it. Yeah, the
blend mode fixed it. Mechanics.
So, thank you. This is actually a very
nice shader now with this. I don't know
if this is exactly like the other one,
but this is a very good start.
Cut maintain.
Yeah,
I have some assistance on that already
though, Tim. I didn't over the summer.
Over the summer, I was just kind of
doing my own thing and I just did my own
thing and I hit my target to the pound.
So,
love opinionated advice in the guide
docks. Well, cuz it's like carbon. If I
don't give it opinionated, like nobody
listens, right? If I tell you you should
consider doing X, everybody says, "Oh,
yeah, yeah, okay." And then they don't
do it. If I say you're an absolute
imbecile if you don't do X, then people
listen, right?
It's like one of the hardest things as
well when you're learning is like nobody
giving you a straight answer with the
appropriate emphasis, right? Like if you
talk to worldclass people and you ask
them for advice, but they like they say
a lot of stuff and they don't actually
accentuate like what portions are
important or not, you go nowhere.
So, I'd ra I'd way rather give useful ex
uh advice than worry about pissing
people off. Plus, it's more fun.
And sure, you know, you can come off as
a dick sometimes that way if you're just
listening to how I say stuff. But like
if you actually look at the result and
look at whether it helps people learn
things or not, it's a very different
story,
right?
I think we can make it like twinkle
twinkle twinkle little star.
Yeah, that's I mean I just I just want
no noise, right? I want tech to exist.
So build it.
Uh it's a sign function, but I also need
to add an index, man.
I think I need to add an index, right?
It literally is AI research is the
thing. Like that is the straight up best
way to get into RL right now
because you will get practical
experience with training agents and that
will help you incrementally get to the
harder stuff.
How do you prevent your back from
sticking to the chair after all the
sweat? I'm not sweating.
I'm doing a set every so often. It's not
cardio. I do my cardio in the morning.
I actually hate being like at my desk in
like a a proper chair being all sweaty
and gross. So, like my training is like
you see me I go do a bench set and like
a set of cable curls or whatever
and I just do a bunch of that throughout
the day.
We did have this 50 set workout on
Sunday. That was fun.
All right, let me actually get this done
cuz like I want to have this thing
working today. Um,
That's position and color, isn't it?
Wait,
wait. Why are there only there two
pointers here?
Oh, cuz this just doesn't get the period
at all.
Oh, it's smuggled into Z. Okay.
Oh, but then I can easily do this. Wait,
I can hack this.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is easy.
Instead of period, this is going to be
I
think you got it to work.
I think you got it to work. Yeah. Yeah. But I'm doing something
Yeah. Yeah. But I'm doing something
slightly different from that.
It's the current time, right?
Uniform.
Right. So this was the weird thing.
I am just not passing the current time
somehow.
Thanks for doing these. Of course.
Hey, I get stuff out of this, too, man.
Like most of these environments are
written by contributors.
I'm a little bit behind on merging PRs,
but like the M's are really super
useful. I have a whole bunch of them
sitting that I got to review and those
are going to go right onto this
dashboard as soon as I do
more experiments.
There's got to be like some decent
well-known function for this, right?
What would be the best companies to get
into the companies
with companies? So, first of all, nobody
gets a PhD in data science. That's not a
serious
thing. People get PhDs in AI or in some
area of AI.
um
Bay Area, the US.
Like just be really good and get like
noticed is pretty much it.
Like I'm not a good person to ask for
traditional job advice
cuz all I'm going to tell you to do is
be really good. Like be good enough to
be noticed, right?
Use RNN or LSTM. Wait, what?
For what? E10.
for anagram. You use an LSTM always.
Publications. Yeah. Or research.
Yeah, pretty much.
Performance by board size. 95 98
Okay, so it's weird that it drops to
zero like that. It should not have such
a sharp fall off to zero.
Unless the learning curves
h
I guess if you if you did the obs the
way that I suggested then it's possible
that it does this.
Is it training on 5x5? Like how do you
have curriculum set up?
Yeah. Arash, the thing is the advice I
don't want to tell you but is probably
true is you have to actually be good at
taking interviews.
which sucks because getting good at
interviews is not the same as actually
being good.
Same stride for all boards.
Whoa.
That's crazy looking.
Not super helpful, but crazy looking.
We'll make this actually look good and
like useful.
That's kind of nutty, though.
Use the same strides. The chords mean
the same thing.
I'd have to look closer at the OB space.
I'd look at the learning curves though.
Ethan, can you plot the um so just log
the PF at each size over time and you'll
get a train curve to basically see cuz
if it's just like if it's like flat zero
and then it just pops up to 100 for size
one and then two and then three and then
four, then that's normal. It's just like
okay, you know, there's nothing wrong.
means applying with a really nice
portfolio. No, it doesn't. Arash, there
are technical interviews as well,
first few steps.
First fe um or perf be cost paused
either way. Yeah.
Dynamically have stats change keys. No,
Eton, you just you would just allocate
like just make fields like 1 2 3 4 5 six
or whatever and just use the ones you
need.
Brad Jobs, ignore your GitHub and do
keyword search.
Yeah, that's the problem. Can like I I'm
not a good person to ask for that,
right?
I'm very much like an outdoor guy. Like
I'm an outdoor nutty kind of type with
this and like yeah, I have traditional
credentials, but guess what? I probably
would fail a like literal first year
software engineering uh interview for
Google, which I could have done when I
was 18, by the way. But like that just
kind of shows you how far off these
things are from the actual practical of
how to do stuff.
Okay. I mean, we can tweak this, but
that is
that star chart
Yeah. The annoying thing, Ethan, is that
comes at the cost of spending time
practicing, actually getting good at
stuff.
You think choosing a different color for
some of them would be better?
Yeah, it's going to get even harder
though is the thing cuz like we're going
to have more colors than this.
So, I don't want it to be a total noisy
mess.
We should also add a tick box for
shader, right?
We're going to we'll add a tick box to
enable or disable shader
cuz like this is fun to look at, but
probably if you want like a static plot,
you just like have it off.
Obviously on by default.
Yeah, you're sadly right about that,
Ethan.
How long did Puffer 40 take?
Well, it took six months and another two
for Twinkies. I This took me a day, not
even. I've done other stuff today as
well. And I have a couple more hours.
I got half an hour till dinner and then
I'm coming back for a night stream most
likely.
Like, this is not even fully tuned yet.
And this is already pretty freaking
cool. You got to admit
I'm trying to think what we do from
this.
uh kind of convert. Not really. It's not
an event-based system.
Yeah, I got to tune it mechanics. So,
let me get the colors first.
Okay, so this just gets to be disgusting
if you do it this way. Apparently,
Start with really simple.
That's kind of what sales for.
Ray literally has it.
Go away.
Okay. So, here. Hang on. We just write a
little wrapper. One sec.
white saturation. What do I have to set
them both?
I mean, obviously you can't tell them
apart right now. Looks cool, though.
Let's Let's tune the shader a little
bit.
That's way better.
A few of them are twinkling.
And the frequency
Uh, tiny grad kind of does. Yeah, none
of the really big ones are good, I don't
think.
Rein looks ace. Yeah, but you can't tell
what's going on. I think I can make it
like a default or something.
We are going to do a night stream though
after this, so we'll have more time
today. I'm feeling good.
I'll probably take like an extra 10
after dinner to get a few more sets in
because I haven't done enough of that
today. But other than that, we're going
to get a a night stream in.
Ah,
can you redefine a macro?
Yeah, you can.
Easy.
really.
Why does this not work?
Undeaf.
Oh, undeaf.
Well, I guess I can just do my own
little camera, right?
13 minutes till I'm off.
Yeah, I got dinner in a few. Actually,
this is a good time for me to mention
for folks. Um, if you are new, yeah, let
me let me actually do outro here now.
I'll keep working until I got dinner.
But if you're new around here, all my
stuff is free. It's open source. It's on
puffer.ai.
This includes all my latest research as
well as the end stuff and educational
materials. So if you want to help me out
for free, just start the repo. If you
want to get involved, join the Discord.
There are lots of helpful people here.
And you can follow me on X for all that
content. My articles are there as well.
That's the best place to read them. This
is my articles tab.
Most of these MS are made by
contributors who are many of them are
brand new to RL. So good way to get
involved.
Now we'll just We actually don't even
need most of this. It's not going to be
that bad.
We'll just do it like this
here.
And I don't need anything that's not
orbital.
This whole else block
literally this goes away
third person or orbital.
Go get their defaults.
You doing a night stream? Yeah, I'll do
a night stream. Jess, give me 30, 40
minutes for dinner.
I'm kind of trying to like finish this
stuff, right?
Oh, is this all it was? Is the rotation
speed?
Um, why don't I have access to these
functions?
All right, I gotta go, folks. I'll be
back after.